## Write several XINU functions that perform the following tasks:

### long zfunction(long param)

Clear the 20th to 27th bits (count the bits from left to right) of the parameter "param" and shift it by 8 bits to the left, and then fill the right most bits with 0. For example, the input parameter 0xaabbccdd should generate a return value of 0xbbc00d00. You can assume that the size of long is 4 bytes. The code for this function should be entirely written in x86 assembly. You should not use inline assembly, (i.e., do not use asm(...)). To investigate the assembly code generated by the compiler, you can use the tool objdump -d <___.o> to disassemble an object file. The object files reside in the /compile directory within the main Xinu directory. You can also see some of the *.S files in the /sys directory for reference.

### void printsegaddress()

Print the addresses indicating the end of the text, data, and BSS segments of the Xinu OS. Also print the 4-byte contents (in hexadecimal) preceding and after those addresses. This function can be written in C.

### void printtos()

Print the address of the top of the run-time stack for whichever process you are currently in, right before and right after you get into the printtos() function call. In addition, print the contents of upto six stack locations below the top of the stack (six or fewer items that have been the most recently pushed, if any). Remember that stack elements are 32 bits wide, and be careful to perform pointer arithmetic correctly. Also note that there are local variables and arguments on the stack, among other things. See the hints given for #4 below, especially on stacktrace.c and proc.h. Your function can be written entirely in C, or you can use in-line assembly if you prefer.

### void printprocstks(int priority)

For each existing process with lower priority than the parameter, print the stack base, stack size, stacklimit, and stack pointer. Also, for each process, include the process name, the process id and the process priority.

To help you do this, please look into proc.h in the h/ directory. Note the proctab[] array that holds all processes. Also, note that the pesp member of the pentry structure holds the saved stack pointer. Therefore, the currently executing process has a stack pointer that is different from the value of this variable. In order to help you get the stack pointer of the currently executing process, carefully study the stacktrace.c file in the sys/ directory. The register %esp holds the current stack pointer. You can use in-line assembly(i.e., asm("...")) to do this part.

### void printsyscalls()

Print the system calls which have been invoked for each process. This task is loosely based on the functionality of LTTng . There are 43 system calls declared. Please look into kernel.h in the h/ directory to see all declared system calls. However, not all of them are implemented in this XINU version. The implementation of the system calls are in the sys/ directory. You are asked to focus on the system calls in this list. You are asked to print the frequency (how many times each system call is invoked) of the system calls in the list for each process. In order to do this, you will need to modify the implementation of the system calls to trace them whenever they are invoked. You will also need to implement two other functions:
void syscallsummary_start(): to start tracing the system calls.
void syscallsummary_stop(): to stop tracing the system calls.
In other words, these two functions determine the duration in which the system calls are traced.

Implement this lab as a set of functions that can be called from main(). Each function should reside in a separate file in the sys directory, and should be incorporated into the Makefile. The files should be named after the functions they are implementing with C files having the .c extension and the assembly files having the .S extension. For example, the file that will hold void printsegaddress() should be named printsegaddress.c; and the file that will hold long zfunction(long param) should be named zfunction.S. You should put syscallsummary_start, syscallsummary_stop functions in the same file as printsyscalls function and name it as printsyscalls.c. If you require a header file, please name it lab0.h. Note: as you create new files, you may need to update the Makefile (located in the compile/directory) to configure it to compile your files correctly. Just look at what is done for the existing files (e.g., main.c) to see what you have to do.
